So with the flex container understood and applied to our project, it's now time to dive deeper into the
flex items and the corresponding properties, specifically we will dive into the order property, then
we'll use the flex shorthand which consists of three single properties actually: the flex grow, flex shrink
and flex basis property
and finally, we'll also have a look at align self. Now to understand these properties, we will jump back
to our theory project and see what these properties do and how we can have an impact, that's really important
now, onto the single flex items that we have because so far, all the properties applied to the flex container
had the same effect onto all flex items. With the flex item specific properties,
we can now really access specific items.
Now let's find out how this works. For that, I'm
back in our project, this is the status we had when we jumped back into our project, into the website
project.
So in the code, I will first change justify content to flex start, like that because I want to make sure
that these elements are aligned to the left so we have a bit more space to the right, we will need
that space and then I will also delete align content because we talked about it already and I don't
think we need it anymore.
As you can see, this doesn't make a difference right here.
So as you saw, we have different properties which we can apply to our flex items and that's the first
important thing we have to understand.
So far, we only worked in the flex container here but this time or in this part of the module, we will work
on the single element, so
on the specific selectors right here that we want to change.
Now what can we change?
Well let's for example say we want to change the order of these elements and we could say that the fourth
element,
so this one right here should be positioned at the beginning,
so in front of our div right here. For that, we simply have to go to item four, the fourth element right
here and now write
the order property, like that. The order property can have different values,
the default value for order is simply 0.
So if I apply this to our item four, nothing changes because order zero is applied to all elements and
will not change a thing.
Now if we change order zero to order one though, like that, if I now reload the page,
well you can see that the element we applied the order property to is now positioned at the end. Now
what does 'at the end' mean?
Well keep in mind we have a flex direction of row, so the main axis goes from left to right,
so at the end of this main axis right here
but this also means if our other elements have an order of zero and one positions the element at the end of
the other elements,
well then if we will change it to -1 right here for example, like that and reload the page, we
can position it in front of the other elements and that's actually the core logic that we have for this
order property.
It allows us to change the order of the elements that the elements initially have
based on the code in HTML and by adding numbers, we simply say that the bigger number we apply to
the order, the later the element will be positioned.
For example, if we now apply an order value right here to our last item of -2 which is smaller than
the one we apply to the fourth item right here, then this element will be positioned in front of all
the other elements.
On the other hand, if I now apply one back to our item four right here like that, it will be positioned at
the end of the elements because this element right here has an order value of, let me increase it a bit, of
-2,
so this is the smallest one,
so this will be the first element that is displayed. Then we have the elements right here in the middle,
this one, this one, this one and that one which has the default order value of 0 and then we have the
last element right here with the order value of 1,
so the highest value and therefore, it's positioned at the end.
An important thing to keep in mind though is, if I now change our flex direction right here from row
to row reverse for example like that, then this will of course also change the order accordingly.
Now this element is displayed first on the screen because it's the last element,
remember our main axis starts right here from right to left,
so at the end of the main axis and the element with the lowest order value,
so this one right here is positioned at the beginning of the main axis right here
but at the end of the page now if you read our page from left to right. This is also true if we change the flex
direction to column right here,
that's of course also possible
and if we do that like this and reload our page, then you can see that the element with the lowest order
value is positioned first and the element with the highest order last
and if we now apply column reverse, then as you can hopefully imagine now, it will be displayed like that
because this will now be positioned at the end of the main axis which now goes from the bottom left corner
to the upper left corner.
Now let's change this back to row though because I think that's the more intuitive way of displaying such
elements, like that.
Now with that, we understood the first property, the order property and we can actually remove that right
here because I don't think we need to change the order of our elements,
it's totally fine the way it is,
so let's reload that and let me show you the second property that we have for our flex items.
Let's do that in the next lecture.